euler
=====

My solutions in ruby to Project Euler

10 ## Summation of primes

Loop through 0 to two million
Function isprime? will determine whether that number id prime.
Find the sum.Too much computation complexity

11 ## Greatest product of four adjacent numbers

Take a matrix grid of 20x20
2 nested loops for :
take products of horizontal cells
take products of vertical cells
take products of diagonal-up cells
take products of diagonal-down cells
find the highest

12 ## Triangle Number

function to find the total number of divisors.
Here is the algo
24 = 2^3 * 3^1
n =  (3+1) * (1 + 1) = 8
Loop through the triangles to find the number whose n > 500

13 ## Large Sum

Loop through numbers to find the large sum.
Fortunately ruby handles all the Big Numbers

14 ## Collatz Sequence

one function to find the next number
another to find the number of total sequence of a given number
A loop from million to 2 to find the highest sequence

15 ## Lattice Paths

Computational Intensive
Used a simple recursive node function but was too computational intensive
used the method provided by jasonbhill of matrix[i][j] = matrix[i-1][j] + matrix[i][j-1] to find the last row and last column

16 ## 2 ^ 1000

easy because ruby can handle Big numbers

17 ## Number letter counts

0 - 20 numbers are unique 
seperated the digits and multiplied and added

18 ## Maximum Path Sum 1

Have found the algorithm.
1.Create a new tree with all values equal to zero of the same dimensions
2.Then find the coordinates of max number in the given tree
3.The element will be 1 of the new tree matching that dimensions.
4.Iterate steps 1 to 3 till you find a way to reach bottom from top.
5.The findtheway of will be done for binary tree
6.There will be only 1 way from top to bottom.That will be the max sum path.

Plan to use http://rubytree.rubyforge.org/rdoc/

19 ## Counting Sundays

Find the number of days from a date to a given date using simple calculations.
Then of that number % 7 == 0 , its a sunday.
A final loop and count from 1/1/1901 to 31/12/2000

20 ## Factorial Digit Sum

First loop to calcualte the product of the numbers and the second loop to calculate the sum of the individual
digits of the product

21 ## Amicable Numbers

First a simple function to calculate the sum of divisors.
Loop from 1 to 10000 and calculate d(n) for each.
the sum of divisors is pushed to array to avoid duplicates

22 ## Name Scores

Read all the names inside the array.
Sort the array using the native array.sort! method of ruby.
Create a Hash that contains letters and their score

23 ## Non-abundant sums

A number n is called abundant if the sum of proper divisors exceeds n.
First find all the abundant numbers below the limit given.
Then two each loops calculate all the possible sums and take .uniq
Then add all the elements generated by (1..limit).to_a - sumofabundants

24 ## Lexicographic permutations

The total possible permutations are 10! = 10 x 9! .This can be done with normal pen and paper
so there are 0.... , 1.... ,2.... total 10 combinations arranged in numberical order
Similarly 01.... , 02... , 03... total 10 combinations .... it goes on .
The first iteration will be 1000000 / 9! = 2 ... the first letter is arr[2]
similarly the count will be 100000 % 9! = 27420 .... get the 27420th lexi number from 20....,21.... ,22.....